# Title

## 000037805 - PetaLinux 2025.1 - Product Update Release Notes and Known Issues

# Date Published

Jun 4, 2025

# Description

This Answer Record acts as the release notes for PetaLinux 2025.1 and contains links to information about resolved issues and updated collateral contained in this release.

The PetaLinux source code and images provided/generated are for demonstration purposes only. 

Refer to [https://xilinx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/A/pages/2741928025/Moving+from+PetaLinux+to+Production+Deployment](https://xilinx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/A/pages/2741928025/Moving+from+PetaLinux+to+Production+Deployment) for more details.

The installation requirements are specified in our user guide [here](https://docs.amd.com/access/sources/dita/topic?isLatest=true&url=ug1144-petalinux-tools-reference-guide&resourceid=installation-requirements-ac434274.html&ft:locale=en-US). 

The packages required for installation per OS can also be found in the attached .xlsx (found at the bottom of this page).

# Solution

## BSPs supported for the PetaLinux 2025.1 Release

This table contains supported BSPs for Zynq 7000, MicroBlaze, Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC, and Versal available on the Embedded Development [download page](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/embedded-design-tools.html).

<table><colgroup><col><col><col><col><col></colgroup><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Sl.No.</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Platform</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Variant</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Name</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Description</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq 7000</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZC702</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zc702-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>: This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq 7000 PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc.) and AXI GPIO connected with led_4bits.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP), rootfs (minimal packages).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU102 production silicon</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu102-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, PCIe, DP, USB, SATA etc.) with PL proc_sys_reset, axi_vip, axi_intc, axi_interconnect, axi_register_slice IP's&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis</strong>:&nbsp;pfm.tcl is packed for generating Vitis platform.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>3</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU104 production silicon</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu104-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>: This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, DP, USB, SATA etc.), VCU DDR4 Controller (PL DDR) and VCU IP,&nbsp; clk_wiz, axi_interconnect, proc_sys_reset IP's</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis</strong>:&nbsp;pfm.tcl is packed for generating Vitis platform.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), vcu-control software, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs (packages which includes additional sotware packages such as GStreamer, OpenMAX, V4L2, libdrm and vcu-examples).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>4</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU106 production silicon</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu106-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware 1 (Extensible Platform)</strong>: This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, PCIe, DP, USB, SATA etc.), VCU DDR4 Controller (PL DDR) and VCU IP, clk_wiz, axi_interconnect, proc_sys_reset IP's</p></li><li><p><strong>Hardware 2(Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, PCIe, DP, USB, SATA etc.), VCU DDR4 Controller (NEW PL DDR PART) and VCU IP,&nbsp; clk_wiz, axi_interconnect,&nbsp;proc_sys_reset IP's</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis</strong>:&nbsp;pfm.tcl is packed for generating Vitis platform.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), fpga manager and vcu-control software, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs (packages which includes additional sotware packages such as GStreamer, OpenMAX, V4L2, libdrm and vcu-examples).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>5</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU216</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu216-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc) with production silicon and ADC_DDR_DMA and DAC_DDR_DMA CLOCKING blocks and , axi_gpio, IP's.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK and RDFC example applications).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>6</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU208</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu208-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc) with production silicon and ADC_DDR_DMA and DAC_DDR_DMA&nbsp; CLOCKING blocks and , axi_gpio, IP's.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK and RDFC example applications).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>7</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>zcu208-sdfec</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu208-sdfec-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc) with production silicon&nbsp;&nbsp;and AXI stream blocks, Monitor blocks, SD-FEC, and , axi_gpio, AXI intc, IP's.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK ,RDFC and SDFEC example applications).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>8</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU670</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu670-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This is having the xsa with ZCU670 board specific silicon.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK and RDFC example applications, python3, dfe packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>9</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;VCK190</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vck190-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon&nbsp;&nbsp;and AIE&nbsp; example in PL.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis Platform</strong>:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Vitis platform used for building Vitis applications.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis AIE Project</strong>: Contains .xsa xclbin and AIE app and its project workspace.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, AIE-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images.</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vck190 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>10</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VCK190-OSPI&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vck190-ospi-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, OSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon&nbsp;&nbsp;and AIE&nbsp; example in PL.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis Platform</strong>:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Vitis platform used for building Vitis applications.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis AIE Project</strong>: Contains .xsa xclbin and AIE app and its project workspace.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, AIE-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images.</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vck190 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>11</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VCK190-EMMC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vck190-emmc-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, EMMC, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon&nbsp;&nbsp;and AIE&nbsp; example in PL.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis Platform</strong>:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Vitis platform used for building Vitis applications.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis AIE Project</strong>: Contains .xsa xclbin and AIE app and its project workspace.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, AIE-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images.</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vck190 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>12</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VMK180</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vmk180-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree:</strong>&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vmk180 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>13</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VPK120</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vpk120-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc).</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>14</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VPK180</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vpk180-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) and enabled sysmon in secure mode with multi slave SLR's enabled with prod silicon</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>15</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VHK158</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vhk158-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block&nbsp; with Vivado board presets with PS(JTAG, HBM, SD, OSPI, eMMC boot modes) and sysmon enabled.</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP will boot from HBM default</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>16</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VEK280</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vek280-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) and sysmon enabled with es silicon</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree</strong>:&nbsp;system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files include files and pdi file.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,&nbsp;Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, AIE-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets, pm-notebooks, libvdu, vdu-firmware.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>17</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><div><p>K26 Production SOM</p></div></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-k26-som-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware:</strong>&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale PS block with only SOM specific PS peripherals enabled + UART&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree: </strong>system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software:</strong>&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-som,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-full-cmdline,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-utils,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-tools-debug,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-networking-stack,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-python-modules,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images:</strong>&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>18</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><div><p>kv260-starterkit</p></div></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-kv260-starterkit-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware:</strong>&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale PS block with only SOM specific PS peripherals enabled + UART&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree: </strong>system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software:</strong>&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-som,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-full-cmdline,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-utils,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-tools-debug,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-networking-stack,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-python-modules,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter.</p></li><li><strong>Pre-built Images:</strong>&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>19</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><div><p>kr260-starterkit</p></div></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-kr260-starterkit-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware:</strong>&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale PS block with only SOM specific PS peripherals enabled + UART&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree: </strong>system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software:</strong>&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-som,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-full-cmdline,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-utils,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-tools-debug,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-networking-stack,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-python-modules,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter.</p></li><li><strong>Pre-built Images:</strong>&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>20</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><div><p>KD240 starter kit</p></div></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-kd240-starterkit-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware:</strong>&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale PS block with only SOM specific PS peripherals enabled + UART&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree: </strong>system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software:</strong>&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-som,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-full-cmdline,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-utils,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-tools-debug,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-networking-stack,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-python-modules,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter.</p></li><li><strong>Pre-built Images:</strong>&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>21</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><div><p>K24C</p></div></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-k24c-som-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware:</strong>&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale PS block with only SOM specific PS peripherals enabled + UART&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree: </strong>system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software:</strong>&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-som,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-full-cmdline,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-utils,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-tools-debug,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-networking-stack,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-python-modules,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter.</p></li><li><strong>Pre-built Images:</strong>&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>22</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><div><p>K24I</p></div></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-k24i-som-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware:</strong>&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale PS block with only SOM specific PS peripherals enabled + UART&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>System Device Tree: </strong>system-top.dts is the system device tree file along with board DTSI files, platform DTSI files, psu init files, include files and bitstream file if it exists.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software:</strong>&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-som,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-full-cmdline,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-utils,&nbsp;packagegroup-core-tools-debug,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-networking-stack,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-python-modules,&nbsp;packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter.</p></li><li><strong>Pre-built Images:</strong>&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

**Unified Images supported for the 2025.1 PetaLinux Release**

This table contains supported unified images for Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC/RFSoC and Versal devices which are available on the Embedded Development [download page](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/embedded-design-tools.html)

<table><colgroup><col><col><col><col><col></colgroup><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Sl. No.</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Platform</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Variant</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Name</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Description</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zynqmp-common-v2025.1_05221048.tar.gz</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This Tar contains:</p><p>bl31.elf, boot.scr, Image, rootfs.ext4, rootfs.manifest, rootfs.tar.gz, <a rel="noopener" target="_blank" href="http://sdk.sh/">sdk.sh</a>, u-boot.elf</p><p>README.txt:&nbsp;&nbsp;which describes the files and has usage information</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-versal-common-v2025.1_05221048.tar.gz</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This Tar contains:</p><p>bl31.elf, boot.scr, Image, rootfs.ext4, rootfs.manifest, rootfs.tar.gz, <a rel="noopener" target="_blank" href="http://sdk.sh/">sdk.sh</a>, u-boot.elf</p><p>README.txt:&nbsp;&nbsp;which describes the files and has usage information</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

**XSCT BSPs**

<table><colgroup><col><col><col><col><col></colgroup><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Sl. No.</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Platform</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Variant</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Name</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Description</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU102</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu102-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, PCIe, DP, USB, SATA etc.) with PL proc_sys_reset, axi_vip, axi_intc, axi_interconnect, axi_register_slice IP's&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis</strong>:&nbsp;pfm.tcl is packed for generating Vitis platform.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU104</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu104-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>: This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, DP, USB, SATA etc.), VCU DDR4 Controller (PL DDR) and VCU IP,&nbsp; clk_wiz, axi_interconnect, proc_sys_reset IP's</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis</strong>:&nbsp;pfm.tcl is packed for generating Vitis platform.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), vcu-control software, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs (packages which includes additional sotware packages such as GStreamer, OpenMAX, V4L2, libdrm and vcu-examples).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>3</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU106</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu106-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware 1(Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, PCIe, DP, USB, SATA etc.), VCU DDR4 Controller (PL DDR) and VCU IP, clk_wiz, axi_interconnect,&nbsp;proc_sys_reset IP's</p></li><li><p><strong>Hardware 2(Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, PCIe, DP, USB, SATA etc.), VCU DDR4 Controller (NEW PL DDR PART) and VCU IP,&nbsp; clk_wiz, axi_interconnect,&nbsp;proc_sys_reset IP's</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis</strong>:&nbsp;pfm.tcl is packed for generating Vitis platform.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), fpga manager and vcu-control software, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs (packages which includes additional sotware packages such as GStreamer, OpenMAX, V4L2, libdrm and vcu-examples).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>4</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU208</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu208-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc) with production silicon and ADC_DDR_DMA and DAC_DDR_DMA&nbsp; CLOCKING blocks and , axi_gpio, IP's.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK and RDFC example applications).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>5</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU216</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu216-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc) with production silicon and ADC_DDR_DMA and DAC_DDR_DMA CLOCKING blocks and , axi_gpio, IP's.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK and RDFC example applications).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>6</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>zcu208-sdfec</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu208-sdfec-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with&nbsp;Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc) with production silicon&nbsp;&nbsp;and AXI stream blocks, Monitor blocks, SD-FEC, and , axi_gpio, AXI intc, IP's.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK ,RDFC and SDFEC example applications).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>7</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZCU670</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zcu670-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This is having the xsa with ZCU670 board specific silicon.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP,Xen), rfclk, rfdc-drivers, Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which includes RFCLK and RDFC example applications, python3, dfe packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, PMUFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>8</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VEK280</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vek280-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) and sysmon enabled with es silicon</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,&nbsp;Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, AIE-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets, pm-notebooks, libvdu, vdu-firmware</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>9</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VMK180</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vmk180-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vmk180 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>10</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VPK120</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vpk120-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc).</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>11</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VPK180</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vpk180-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) and enabled sysmon in secure mode with multi slave SLR's enabled with prod silicon</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>12&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VHK158</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vhk158-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block&nbsp; with Vivado board presets with PS(JTAG, HBM, SD, OSPI, eMMC boot modes) and sysmon enabled.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages.</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP will boot from HBM default</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>13</p></td><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VCK190</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vck190-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon&nbsp;&nbsp;and AIE example in PL.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis Platform</strong>:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Vitis&nbsp;&nbsp;platform used for building Vitis applications.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis AIE Project:</strong> Contains .xsa xclbin and AIE&nbsp;app and its project workspace.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, aie-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images.</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vck190 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>14</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VCK190-EMMC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vck190-emmc-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>:&nbsp;Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon with EMMC boot module and with AIE&nbsp; example in PL.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis Platform</strong>:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Vitis platform used for building Vitis applications.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis AIE Project</strong>: Contains .xsa xclbin and AIE app and its project workspace.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, aie-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both vck190 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>15</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>VCK190-OSPI</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vck190-ospi-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware (Extensible Platform)</strong>: Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc) with production silicon with OSPI boot module and with AIE&nbsp; example in PL.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis Platform</strong>:&nbsp;&nbsp;This Vitis platform used for building Vitis applications.</p></li><li><p><strong>Vitis AIE Project</strong>: Contains .xsa xclbin and AIE app and its project workspace.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP, Xen), with Ramdisk Rootfs (minimal rootfs) ,Full rootfs packages which include sotware packages such as Tcl, xrt, zocl, python,&nbsp;&nbsp;libstdcPLUSPLUS, AIE-example, packagegroup-petalinux-jupyter,pm-notebooks,openamp-demo-notebooks,python3-ipywidgets</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux and also xen images</p></li></ul><p><strong>Note</strong>: This BSP supports Both VCK190 rev1 and revA boards</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>16</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Zynq 7000</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>ZC702</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-zc702-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This design uses Vivado board presets with Zynq 7000 PS block (DDR, UART, SD, QSPI, Ethernet etc.) and AXI GPIO connected with led_4bits.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;FSBL, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree (includes OpenAMP), rootfs (minimal packages).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, FSBL, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>17</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Microblaze</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>sp701</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-sp701-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Hardware</strong>:&nbsp;This is Vivado board preset example design which contains MicroBlaze Processor, core peripherals IP's like&nbsp;AXI I2C, AXI GPIO, AXI DDR controller, AXI QSPI, AXI Uartlite, led_8bits and AXI 1G/2.5G Ethernet.</p></li><li><p><strong>Software</strong>:&nbsp;fs-boot, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree, rootfs (minimal packages).</p></li><li><p><strong>Pre-built Images</strong>:&nbsp;Ready to test images bitstream, fs-boot, U-Boot, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux.</p></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

**Lounge BSPs:**

**Note:** Refer to README.hw file in BSPs for all IP Type and Versions in BSP designs. 

<table><colgroup><col><col><col><col><col></colgroup><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Sl.No.</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Platform</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Variant</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Name</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>BSP Description</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Versal</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><span>Versal Prime Series&nbsp;</span></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>xilinx-vm-p-m1369-00-reva-x-prc-01-reva-xsct-v2025.1-05221048.bsp</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This BSP contains:</p><ul><li><p>Hardware: Design uses Vivado board presets and contains Versal CIPS IP PS block (LPDDR, DDR,&nbsp; OSPI, Ethernet, USB, etc)</p></li><li><p>Software:&nbsp;PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, Linux, device-tree, with rootfs</p></li><li><p>Pre-built Images: Ready to test images PDI, PLM, PSMFW, TF-A, U-Boot, DTB's, Linux and rootfs for booting U-Boot and Linux</p></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## PetaLinux 2025.1 contains the following build collateral:

## Commits Information

The following table contains Repo, Tag, and commit ID information for the 2025.1 Release.

## Meta Layers

| **Component**          | **branch**  | **Commit id**                            | **URL**                                                      | **Tag**          |
| ---------------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- |
| meta-amd-adaptive-socs | rel-v2025.1 | 83ed18b90bcbc1d56dffb0df8dd0824a7e81de07 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-amd-adaptive-socs/tree/rel-v2025.1 | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-arm               | rel-v2025.1 | 3cadb81ffaa9f03b92e302843cb22a9cd41df34b | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-arm/tree/rel-v2025.1          | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-aws               | rel-v2025.1 | ae19378f45ad92510a7242b89febc99f7de3d88c | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-aws/tree/rel-v2025.1          | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-jupyter           | rel-v2025.1 | 6b9b2542f3e52d30f5100747ce312dc46791c5cc | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-jupyter/tree/rel-v2025.1      | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-kria              | rel-v2025.1 | 63aa98e90573cae61fe4c782e946c799d712774f | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-kria/tree/rel-v2025.1         | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-mingw             | rel-v2025.1 | bd9fef71ec005be3c3a6d7f8b99d8116daf70c4f | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-mingw/tree/rel-v2025.1        | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-openamp           | rel-v2025.1 | e44e4a3b4abe9cc5fdfe75c43181ba82750f6865 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-openamp/tree/rel-v2025.1      | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-openembedded      | rel-v2025.1 | 6c9f1f8d4538119803bf793747b65e4d23c33544 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-openembedded/tree/rel-v2025.1 | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-petalinux         | rel-v2025.1 | 90da27262fec73f66af71115afc7fa654e974815 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-petalinux/tree/rel-v2025.1    | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-qt5               | rel-v2025.1 | eb828418264a49b8d00035cb3d7b12fcea3be801 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-qt5/tree/rel-v2025.1          | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-rauc              | rel-v2025.1 | 76b97796be1d0303436835e56d85d7316a1029d9 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-rauc/tree/rel-v2025.1         | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-ros               | rel-v2025.1 | ff76fa90fb66d0b83238d99f882c60f2373eb875 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-ros/tree/rel-v2025.1          | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-security          | rel-v2025.1 | bc865c5276c2ab4031229916e8d7c20148dfbac3 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-security/tree/rel-v2025.1     | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-virtualization    | rel-v2025.1 | c14460de91ce0858bafb0dd73ddf4d873c53c60f | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-virtualization/tree/rel-v2025.1 | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-vitis             | rel-v2025.1 | 562adefd277483afb2eb4a9402f6a6ebbd653bba | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-vitis/tree/rel-v2025.1        | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-xilinx            | rel-v2025.1 | f24f5dde78fe9a8a30d56f0ee6699bed29f21bcf | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx/tree/rel-v2025.1       | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-xilinx-tools      | rel-v2025.1 | 982572c8efe0070b198ed162c0a3f268b4a15d4a | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx-tools/tree/rel-v2025.1 | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| meta-xilinx-tsn        | rel-v2025.1 | db643704b5883091dc837a3a1a203ce44bec4a7b | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-xilinx-tsn/tree/rel-v2025.1   | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| poky                   | rel-v2025.1 | dcb242eb1926f393fb08738875232824e69e11e4 | https://github.com/Xilinx/poky/tree/rel-v2025.1              | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| yocto-manifests        | rel-v2025.1 | 8bb7a1129a0427c1af08289da808131f54f32f9e | https://github.com/Xilinx/yocto-manifests/tree/rel-v2025.1   | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |
| yocto-scripts          | rel-v2025.1 | 46e44e6c37a6af28074cbb35d7da2f799225bb58 | https://github.com/Xilinx/yocto-scripts/tree/rel-v2025.1     | xlnx-rel-v2025.1 |

## SSW  Components

| Component               | branch                | Commit id                                | URL                                                     | Tag                           |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| linux-xlnx              | xlnx_rebase_v6.12_LTS | 0a0f70e531c7c36d7ab42b374286b67b9fc2c660 | https://github.com/Xilinx/linux-xlnx                    | xlnx_rebase _v6.12_LTS_2025.1 |
| u-boot-xlnx             | xlnx_rebase_v2025.01  | a09d2660433d3d1ade6a14a82b21a13c2bbb3821 | https://github.com/Xilinx/u-boot-xlnx                   | xlnx_rebase _v2025.01_2025.1  |
| trusted-firmware-a      | xlnx_rebase_v2.12     | dd3512287a17eea866d5c82fa7b86ad58de59163 | https://github.com/Xilinx/arm-trusted-firmware          | xlnx_rebase _v2.12_2025.1     |
| fsbl-firmware           | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | c0aed2eff7a30f307238ec853fa8fbc45dcabdda | https://github.com/Xilinx/embeddedsw                    | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| device-tree             | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 3d2eaf1d5fbbdfeb09f288362dab3888c671522f | https://github.com/Xilinx/device-tree-xlnx              | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| qemu-devicetrees-native | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 0d471f25f9eb338247efc5d3dea5115cc7e86fef | https://github.com/Xilinx/qemu-devicetrees              | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| qemu-xilinx             | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | b05c9752662eb4b8120a57454a323445d78d1463 | https://github.com/Xilinx/qemu                          | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| xen                     | xlnx_rebase_4.20      | 9bd07e80da69dfa34b7a51b19e758174d5ddbdda | https://github.com/Xilinx/xen                           | xlnx_rebase _4.20_2025.1      |
| runx-xlnx               | xlnx_rebase_1.1       | 0c7edb3453398d7a0c594ce026c9c1e93c2541cc | https://github.com/Xilinx/runx                          | xlnx_rebase _1.1_2025.1       |
| libmali-xlnx            | xlnx_rel_v2024.2      | 644dc96597172e3cf15aea63b4ee947d421810aa | https://github.com/Xilinx/mali-userspace-binaries       | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| libmetal-xlnx           | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 50559a720099471bdbb22c3e93604a32c9ac7790 | https://github.com/Xilinx/libmetal                      | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| open-amp-xlnx           | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | aa5783e9f6b9be5d9a12aee05c946048c5373dc3 | https://github.com/Xilinx/open-amp                      | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| vcu-firmware            | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 46c57faac36f36ff9695f983bf455a8e660a7fff | https://github.com/Xilinx/vcu-firmware                  | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| libvcu-xlnx             | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | d36ee509c1d12ca4d3f09d0b3b974449fd91f0b4 | https://github.com/Xilinx/vcu-ctrl-sw                   | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| kernel-module-vcu       | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 84dcc774dfedfad9ffa226190f4421f29a4e7e8b | https://github.com/Xilinx/vcu-modules                   | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| libomxil-xlnx           | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 4c5b7130eedb13635318e35bfe779061d06347d7 | https://github.com/Xilinx/vcu-omx-il                    | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| libvdu-omxil            | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 4126404dfce767870a672f07804d880106d6d5e2 | https://github.com/Xilinx/vdu-omx-il                    | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| kernel-module-vdu       | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | ed50e0c838acc95654448f5b13b2572ba844f2cb | https://github.com/Xilinx/vdu-modules                   | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| libvdu-ctrlsw           | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 1bbaf265b6d0a9fa25fd4d67133e55cbf0e6daa7 | https://github.com/Xilinx/vdu-ctrl-sw                   | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| vdu-firmware            | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | e14e7614fbcbd72f0aa75b953e089bf4634ee128 | https://github.com/Xilinx/vdu-firmware                  | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| kernel-module-hdmi      | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 4ea62416d6dddaf5a2948f9ebf626f4b4234d77f | https://github.com/Xilinx/hdmi-modules                  | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| kernel-module-hdmi21    | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 5699556f9b03fd0a7c97ad2f970137b3e06c3bc5 | https://github.com/Xilinx/hdmi21-modules                | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| kernel-module-dp        | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 5cceb0fdd414b7a453066a57cc693ac8c0532fca | https://github.com/Xilinx/hdmi21-modules                | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| lopper                  | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | c8a6edf0625b3dffce21729b3ccb9d00006bd8f0 | https://github.com/Xilinx/lopper                        | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| gstreamer-vdu-notebooks | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 71b1bfb808b02c21f2845021add72ae7ffaa07ef | https://github.com/Xilinx/multimedia-notebooks          | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| xrt                     | 2025.1                | 39dabcddd1366efd1309773815b364ded37d5219 | https://github.com/Xilinx/XRT                           |                               |
| gstreamer1.0            | xlnx-rebase-v1.22.12  | a2aeacb2cd2005031cc2f48ba1722a6e038e40ac | https://github.com/Xilinx/gstreamer                     | xlnx-rebase- v1.22.12_2025.1  |
| bootgen                 | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 7a2efe227896df91e57f7d4bd32a7a60c2b1afde | https://github.com/Xilinx/bootgen                       | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| libdfx                  | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | af8d735fae286e7bc94c830a86c960598a4ac014 | https://github.com/Xilinx/libdfx                        | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| sdfec                   | xlnx_rel_v2024.1      | 84b31cb194325640a631380ed8bfc1db21bab883 | https://github.com/Xilinx/linux-examples                | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| image-builder           | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 75e3631fb8263bf85dc4e7444933d24daf7970a5 | https://github.com/Xilinx/imagebuilder                  | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| dfx-mgr                 | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 4c4e8762cbec18e964b77f9fc8d3534eaf35183b | https://github.com/Xilinx/dfx-mgr                       | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| xmutil                  | master                | 51510bb0fd7d586841709a49c493fe3398bd2d2c | https://github.com/Xilinx/xmutil                        | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| kria-dashboard          | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 46465ed651963cb2ee6ec558caef161a9f717671 | https://github.com/Xilinx/kria-dashboard                | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| axi-qos                 | master                | 1efd01554f9f1d79e69ceab5db242a6f5813e9cc | https://github.com/Xilinx/axi-qos                       | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| ddr-qos                 | master                | 26ab6bb5837a1c48c600c6c61f3d214e8c633808 | https://github.com/Xilinx/ddr-qos                       | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| xlnx-platformstats      | master                | 01924a97b5c8f290cc1819266820f84f2302dd27 | https://github.com/Xilinx/xlnx_platformstats            | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| image-update            | master                | aa56986dc060e86b0cb0b3334ff902242e855809 | https://github.com/Xilinx/linux-image_update            | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| image-recovery          | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | c0aed2eff7a30f307238ec853fa8fbc45dcabdda | https://github.com/Xilinx/embeddedsw                    | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| pm-notebooks            | xlnx_rel_v2023.2      | c502be361b6857e21ab903f31c9ead69e3a0d9ba | https://github.com/Xilinx/platform-management-notebooks | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| board-id-data           | xlnx_rel_v2024.1      | b2ae845b7b1b24f82a9410c2db5bc2eae5b4a545 | https://github.com/Xilinx/xlnx-board-id-data            | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| ai-engine-driver        | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 2ec684582282ea480149af131a781689cbc4ff6e | https://github.com/Xilinx/aie-rt                        | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| tsn-examples            | main                  | b68dc4efb12954623148d60e188d77f85f887acb | https://github.com/Xilinx/tsn-talker-listener           | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| tsn-utils               | main                  | 83a6c8d5e59b445a94d39c7a36706ef26298d3ce | https://github.com/Xilinx/tsn-utils                     | xilinx_v2025.1                |
| gen-machine-conf        | xlnx_rel_v2025.1      | 42d8e24d3fbfed4aaa920c0feddeb17844f51c7e | https://github.com/Xilinx/gen-machine-conf              | xilinx_v2025.1                |

## PetaLinux components

| **Component**           | **branch**       | **Commit id**                            | **URL**                                                      | **Tag**        |
| ----------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| meta-petalinux-tools    | xlnx_rel_v2025.1 | dd1fc92192bd7ddae230aea28128eee991f4b799 | https://github.com/Xilinx/meta-petalinux-tools/tree/xlnx_rel_v2025.1 | xilinx_v2025.1 |
| system-device-tree-xlnx | xlnx_rel_v2025.1 | 437524e72c5102b064ef791f2acbade0f4aa29b9 | https://github.com/Xilinx/system-device-tree-xlnx/tree/xlnx_rel_v2025.1 | xilinx_v2025.1 |

## Open Source components New Features

- See [here](https://xilinx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/XWUC/pages/3277651969/2025.1+Release+Notes+for+Open+Source+Components) for the list of features

## Known Issues for the 2025.1 release

**Note:** Please refer to lounge for Versal Gen2 known issues.

| **Linux/Baremetal** | **Components**       | **Platform/SoC Supported** | **Work-around Article Description and Link**                 | **To be fixed version** |
| ------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| Linux               | SSW_DTG+             | All                        | [2025.1 PetaLinux: Warnings observed for amba_pl in Zynq UltraScale+ SDT BSP](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000037977) | 2025.2                  |
| Linux               | Platform Management  | Versal                     | [2025.1: SD and QSPI Boot fails with Versal isolation enabled CCI/SMMU designs](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000037120) | 2025.2                  |
| Baremetal           | SSW_Libraries        | Versal                     | [2025.1  and prior - Versal PLM and XilNvm: Issue with IV Values and Ranges in  Symmetric Hardware Root of Trust Secure Boot Mode (S-HWRoT)](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000037753) | 2025.2                  |
| Linux               | PS CANFD             | Versal                     | [2025_1 Versal PS CANFD - Incorrect clock frequency value in Linux](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000038015) | 2025.2                  |
| Baremetal           | Axi-Mutex, SSW-DTG++ | All                        | [2025.1 :Vitis Unified IDE : SDTGEN Error](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000038062) | 2025.2                  |
| Linux               | SSW_Video-Linux      | Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC     | [2025.1 : OOB Transcode Streamout Decode Display Case Failure with PLNX Pre-Built Image: Flickering Issue Observed](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000038066) | 2025.2                  |
| Linux               | BSP                  | Zynq UltraScale+ RFSOC     | [2025.1 : RPM distro Build failing for zynqmp-dr variant (Zynq RFSoC)](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000038065) | 2025.2                  |
| Baremetal           | Platform Management  | Spartan UltraScale+        | 2025.1 : Compilation errors when trying to build XilSecure and XilPuf examples for Spartan UltraScale+ | 2025.2                  |



# 2025.1_petalinux_OS_Package_latest_list.xlsx

## Linux Distribution OS details:

 Desktop (From Everything.ISO): Development and Creative workstation.

1. Ubuntu 22.04.2,22.04.3,22.04.4,22.04.5
2. OPEN SUSE LEAP 15.4,Almalinux 8.7,Almalinux 9.1,Almalinux 8.10,Almalinux 9.4  (From Everything.ISO): Infrastructure server
  4.OPEN SUSE LEAP 15.4 ,Almalinux 8.7,Almalinux 9.1,Almalinux 8.10,Almalinux 9.4 Desktop,Rhel 9.4 (From Everything.ISO): Development and Creative workstation.
  Note: 
3. Empty packages are not installed means assuming these are default from Linux Distribution.
4. For RHEL/CentOS/Suse you need to installGitPython and jinja2 using pip3 commands as mentioned below.
  Host GCC Version Upgrade:
  From 2021.1 release, the gcc version should be greater than 6. Using lower versions of gcc causes build issues. You can also enable the Enable buildtools extended option from petalinux -config → Yocto settings, which uses the pre-compiled gcc binaries from the PetaLinux tool.  

## Quick Installation steps for packages

### Ubuntu Desktop/Server 64 bit

```
sudo apt-get install iproute2 gawk python3 python build-essential gcc git make net-tools libncurses5-dev tftpd zlib1g-dev libssl-dev flex bison libselinux1 gnupg wget git-core diffstat chrpath socat xterm autoconf libtool tar unzip texinfo zlib1g-dev gcc-multilib automake zlib1g:i386 screen pax gzip cpio python3-pip python3-pexpect xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint3
```

### Almalinux and Rhel Desktop/Server 64-bit

```
sudo yum/Zypper install net-tools gawk make wget tar bzip2 gzip python3 unzip perl patch diffutils diffstat git cpp gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel texinfo chrpath socat perl-Data-Dumper perl-Text-ParseWords perl-Thread-Queue python3-pip python3-GitPython python3-jinja2 python3-pexpect xz which SDL-devel xterm autoconf libtool.x86_64 zlib-devel automake glib2-devel zlib ncurses-devel openssl-devel dos2unix flex bison glibc.i686 glibc.x86_64 screen pax glibc-devel.i686 compat-libstdc++-33.i686 libstdc++.i686 libstdc++.x86_64

pip3 install GitPython jinja2		
```

## Tool/Library Versions

### Ubuntu 

| Tool/Library                                    | Ubuntu  Desktop     /Server 22.04.2(64-bit) | Ubuntu  Desktop     /Server 22.04.3(64-bit) | Ubuntu  Desktop     /Server 22.04.4(64-bit) | Ubuntu  Desktop     /Server 22.04.5(64-bit) |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| gawk                                            | 1:5.1.0-1ubuntu0.1                          | 1:5.1.0-1ubuntu0.1                          | 1:5.1.0-1ubuntu0.1                          | 1:5.1.0-1ubuntu0.1                          |
| gcc                                             | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           |
| netstat (net-tools)                             | 1.60+git20181103.0eebece-1ubuntu5           | 1.60+git20181103.0eebece-1ubuntu5           | 1.60+git20181103.0eebece-1ubuntu5           | 1.60+git20181103.0eebece-1ubuntu5           |
| ncurses-devel(libncurses5-dev)                  | 6.3-2ubuntu0.1                              | 6.3-2ubuntu0.1                              | 6.3-2ubuntu0.1                              | 6.3-2ubuntu0.1                              |
| zlib-devel(also,install 32-bit of this version) | NA                                          | NA                                          | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| openssl                                         | 3.0.2-0ubuntu1.10                           | 3.0.2-0ubuntu1.10                           | 3.0.2-0ubuntu1.10                           | 3.0.2-0ubuntu1.10                           |
| libselinux1                                     | 3.3-1build2                                 | 3.3-1build2                                 | 3.3-1build2                                 | 3.3-1build2                                 |
| xterm                                           | 372-1ubuntu1                                | 372-1ubuntu1                                | 372-1ubuntu1                                | 372-1ubuntu1                                |
| zlib1g-dev                                      | 1:1.2.11.dfsg-2ubuntu9.2                    | 1:1.2.11.dfsg-2ubuntu9.2                    | 1:1.2.11.dfsg-2ubuntu9.2                    | 1:1.2.11.dfsg-2ubuntu9.2                    |
| gcc-multilib                                    | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           |
| build-essential                                 | 12.9ubuntu3                                 | 12.9ubuntu3                                 | 12.9ubuntu3                                 | 12.9ubuntu3                                 |
| automake                                        | 1:1.16.5-1.3                                | 1:1.16.5-1.3                                | 1:1.16.5-1.3                                | 1:1.16.5-1.3                                |
| screen                                          | 4.9.0-1                                     | 4.9.0-1                                     | 4.9.0-1                                     | 4.9.0-1                                     |
| libstdc++                                       | 11.4.0-1ubuntu1~22.04                       | 11.4.0-1ubuntu1~22.04                       | 11.4.0-1ubuntu1~22.04                       | 11.4.0-1ubuntu1~22.04                       |
| g++ (gcc-c++)                                   | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           |
| python3-pip                                     | 22.0.2+dfsg-1ubuntu0.5                      | 22.0.2+dfsg-1ubuntu0.5                      | 22.0.2+dfsg-1ubuntu0.5                      | 22.0.2+dfsg-1ubuntu0.5                      |
| xz(xz-utils)                                    | 5.2.5-2ubuntu1                              | 5.2.5-2ubuntu1                              | 5.2.5-2ubuntu1                              | 5.2.5-2ubuntu1                              |
| cpp                                             | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           | 4:11.2.0-1ubuntu1                           |
| patch                                           | 2.7.6-7build2                               | 2.7.6-7build2                               | 2.7.6-7build2                               | 2.7.6-7build2                               |
| python3-     GitPython(python3-git)             | 3.1.24-1                                    | 3.1.24-1                                    | 3.1.24-1                                    | 3.1.24-1                                    |
| python3-jinja2                                  | 3.0.3-1ubuntu0.4                            | 3.0.3-1ubuntu0.4                            | 3.0.3-1ubuntu0.4                            | 3.0.3-1ubuntu0.4                            |
| python3-pexpect                                 | 4.8.0-2ubuntu1                              | 4.8.0-2ubuntu1                              | 4.8.0-2ubuntu1                              | 4.8.0-2ubuntu1                              |
| diffutils                                       | 1:3.8-0ubuntu2                              | 1:3.8-0ubuntu2                              | 1:3.8-0ubuntu2                              | 1:3.8-0ubuntu2                              |
| debianutils                                     | 5.5-1ubuntu2                                | 5.5-1ubuntu2                                | 5.5-1ubuntu2                                | 5.5-1ubuntu2                                |
| iputils-ping                                    | 3:20211215-1                                | 3:20211215-1                                | 3:20211215-1                                | 3:20211215-1                                |
| libegl1-mesa                                    | 23.0.4-0ubuntu1~22.04.1                     | 23.0.4-0ubuntu1~22.04.1                     | 23.0.4-0ubuntu1~22.04.1                     | 23.0.4-0ubuntu1~22.04.1                     |
| libsdl1.2-dev                                   | 1.2.15+dfsg2-6                              | 1.2.15+dfsg2-6                              | 1.2.15+dfsg2-6                              | 1.2.15+dfsg2-6                              |
| pylint3                                         | NA                                          | NA                                          | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| python3                                         | 3.10.6-1~22.04.1                            | 3.10.6-1~22.04.1                            | 3.10.6-1~22.04.1                            | 3.10.6-1~22.04.1                            |
| cpio                                            | 2.13+dfsg-7ubuntu0.1                        | 2.13+dfsg-7ubuntu0.1                        | 2.13+dfsg-7ubuntu0.1                        | 2.13+dfsg-7ubuntu0.1                        |
| gnupg                                           | 2.2.27-3ubuntu2.3                           | 2.2.27-3ubuntu2.3                           | 2.2.27-3ubuntu2.3                           | 2.2.27-3ubuntu2.3                           |
| bind-utils                                      | N/A                                         | N/A                                         | N/A                                         | N/A                                         |

### openSUSE/AlmaLinux OS Versions

| Tool/Library                                    | Opensuse Leap  15.4 Desktop     /Server (64-bit) | Almalinux 9.4  Desktop     /Server (64-bit) | Almalinux 9.5  Desktop     /Server (64-bit) |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| gawk                                            | gawk-4.2.1-150000.3.3.1                          | gawk-5.1.0-6                                | gawk-5.1.0-6.el9                            |
| gcc                                             | gcc - 7-3.9.1                                    | gcc - 11.4.1-3                              | gcc - 11.5.0-5.el9_5.alma.1                 |
| netstat (net-tools)                             | net-tools  -2.0+git20170221.479bb4a-3.11         | net-tools-2.0-0.62.20160912git              | net-tools-2.0-0.62.20160912git              |
| ncurses-devel(libncurses5-dev)                  | NA                                               | ncurses-6.1-10.20180224                     | ncurses-6.2-10.20210508.el9                 |
| zlib-devel(also,install 32-bit of this version) | zlib-devel-1.2.11-150000.3.48.1                  | zlib-devel-1.2.11-39.el9                    | zlib-devel-1.2.11-40.el9                    |
| openssl                                         | openssl-  1.1.1l-150400.1.5                      | openssl-  1:3.0.1-43.el9                    | openssl-  8.7p1-43.el9                      |
| libselinux1                                     | libselinux1 - 3.1-150400.1.69                    | libselinux  -3.5-1.el9                      | libselinux  -3.6-1.el9                      |
| xterm                                           | xterm-  330-150200.11.12.1                       | xterm-366-8.el9                             | xterm-366-8.el9                             |
| zlib1g-dev                                      | NA                                               | zlib1g-devel-1.2.11-40                      | NA                                          |
| gcc-multilib                                    | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| build-essential                                 | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| automake                                        | automake -1.15.1-4.10.2                          | automake-1.16.2-8                           | automake-1.16.2-8                           |
| screen                                          | screen-4.6.2-150000.5.5.1                        | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| libstdc++                                       | NA                                               | libstdc++-11.4.1-3                          | libstdc++-11.4.1-3                          |
| g++ (gcc-c++)                                   | gcc-c++7-3.9.1                                   | NA                                          | gcc-c++  -11.5.0-5.el9_5.alma.1             |
| python3-pip                                     | python3-pip-20.0.2-150400.20.1                   | python3-pip-21.2.3-8                        | python3-pip-21.3.1-1.el9                    |
| xz(xz-utils)                                    | xz-5.2.3-150000.4.7.1                            | xz-5.2.5-8                                  | xz-5.2.5-8                                  |
| cpp                                             | cpp  -7-3.9.1                                    | cpp  -11.4.1-3                              | cpp  -11.5.0-5.el9_5.alma.1                 |
| patch                                           | patch-2.7.6-150000.5.3.1                         | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| python3-     GitPython(python3-git)             | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| python3-jinja2                                  | NA                                               | python3-jinja2-2.11.3-5                     | python3-jinja2-2.11.3-6.el9                 |
| python3-pexpect                                 | python3-pexpect-4.8.0-150400.17.64               | python3-pexpect-4.8.0-7                     | python3-pexpect-4.8.0-7                     |
| diffutils                                       | diffutils-3.6-4.3.1                              | diffutils-3.7-12                            | diffutils-3.7-12                            |
| debianutils                                     | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| iputils-ping                                    | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| libegl1-mesa                                    | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| libsdl1.2-dev                                   | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| pylint3                                         | NA                                               | NA                                          | NA                                          |
| python3                                         | Python3-3.9.19-8.el9_5.1                         | python3  -3.9.18-3                          | python3  -3.9.18-3                          |
| cpio                                            | cpio  -2.13-150400.1.98                          | cpio  -2.13-16                              | cpio  -2.13-16                              |
| gnupg                                           | NA                                               | gnupg-2.3.3-4                               | gnupg-2.3.3-4                               |
| bind-utils                                      | bind-utils-9.16.20-150400.3.6                    | bind-utils-32:9.16.23-18                    | bind-utils-32:9.16.23-24.el9_5.3            |

# Fair Use Notice

Portions of the material cited above are reproduced from the original release notes published by their respective copyright holders. These excerpts are provided solely for the purposes of commentary, analysis, and reference under the fair use provisions of U.S. copyright law (17 U.S.C. § 107). All copyrights remain with their respective owners. For the complete and official version, please refer to the publisher’s website or the archived copy linked in this post.

**Purpose**: A permanent record in case the vendor changes or removes the page later

**Saved From**: https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000037805?language=en_US 

**Access**: Used a **Private Browser**. No login was required to access this information.  

**Copyright**: © 2025 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc 

**Date Archived**: 2025-09-26 17:55 UTC